this is Giancarlo Cal desi
I'm Katie Cal Daisy author of this book
the Italian cookery course and owner of
our cookery school La Cucina Cal days in
London today I'm going to show you an
authentic Italian recipe today I'm going
to show you how to make pizza margherita
we've got for the base 500 grams of
double zero flour 10 grams of fresh
yeast but you could use 7 grams 1 sachet
of dried yeast I've got 2 heaped
teaspoons of salt 120 mil of water 200
mil of beer and the flours I've said for
the topping I'm going to be using 400
grams so that's 1 can of plum tomatoes
I've got a heaped teaspoon of oregano 1
heaped teaspoon of salt and some basil
leaves and to finish some balls of
mozzarella so to make the dough to begin
with what I'm going to do is melt the
yeast into the water and you can do this
with your fingers just to make sure that
all the little lumps of yeast are really
well combined into it if you're using
dried yeast
what you do is scatter they're dried you
straight into the flour as long as it's
the easy blend version of it so I'm
going to put the salt in there now make
sure my yeast is really really well
mixed up and there aren't any little
lumps clinging to the bottom here so I
can pour that straight in I'm just going
to mix up the salt a little bit first
then I can pour that straight in and
measure out 200 mil of the beer beer
gives it a really nice flavor and it
also helps activate the yeast quite well
so just make sure I've got enough in
there so all the liquid into place and
then using a dough scraper or your hands
if you don't have a dough scraper just
mix the dough together
if you feel it's a little bit dry you
can always add a little bit more of
either water or beer and all the alcohol
in the beer is cooked out so don't worry
about giving it to your children right
so now I'm going to get my hand in there
just one hand at the moment so you don't
get covered in dough and now I'm going
to need it
so you can see that it doesn't have much
elasticity at the moment but you're
going to develop that by the kneading so
what I'm going to do is stretch out the
dough fold it to trap the air in there
and turn it right so once it springs
back to the touch let's have a look
there we are you think it's springing
back to the touch so I know that I've
needed it enough so it's probably been
around seven to ten minutes but that's
really going for it so I've got my
lovely soft ball of dough I'm now going
to cut it into four if you want to be
accurate you could weigh these on a
digital scale so you know that each ball
of dough is the same and that way
everyone gets the same size of pizza if
this makes for pizza margaritas are now
going to make them into little balls so
if you say I've got a triangle here I'm
going to fold in the edges here so I've
almost got my little dough ball and then
just chafe them like this moving my
hands around them so that all the little
crevices get tucked into the bottom and
you get this nice even topping here now
what we're going to do is rub a little
bit of oil over the surface just so that
they don't get a crust on them so I'm
going to leave them for maybe about an
hour really until they've doubled in
volume and I can see that they're nice
and puffy and ready so to make the pizza
topping I've got some tin Tomatoes here
I'm just going to mash them up using a
potato masher
into here I'm going to put the Oregon oh
just over a heaped teaspoon of Oregon ax
and a heaped teaspoon of salt as well
the pizza topping should have a lot of
flavor to it there's a couple of
tablespoons of olive oil going in there
as well so let's see how the pizza is
done Wow
that's risen up really well so you can
see they're doubled in volume doubled in
size and now what we're going to do is
roll them out plenty of flour now and
roll them out with a rolling pin and put
the pizza on to the board and when
you're doing this just make sure that
your pizza is going to move around on
the board all the time so now for the
topping it's probably a couple of
tablespoons and then spread it out over
the surface of the pizza and always
remember that less is more now I'm going
to tear up I've got proper buffalo
mozzarella here so a proper margarita
pizza should be buffalo mozzarella it
should be basil good olive oil good
tomatoes and again you don't need too
much cheese it's amazing how much it
spreads so couple of sprigs a basil on
top and it's ready to go in the oven
just check again that you can still move
the pizza on those word
so I'm going to go to the back of the
tray and slide Pizza run so in a really
hot oven about seven minutes is right
for the pizzas to be ready because it
may take longer if you're not reaching
such high temperatures and that's how to
make pizza margherita in the Italian way